Allow the server to control fog_distance and fog_start via the sky-api (#13448)
minetest/minetest: doc/lua_api.md

                abides by, `"custom"` uses `sun_tint` and `moon_tint`, while
                `"default"` uses the classic Minetest sun and moon tinting.
                Will use tonemaps, if set to `"default"`. (default: `"default"`)
        * `fog`: A table with following optional fields:
            * `fog_distance`: integer, override the client's viewing_range.
               By default, fog_distance is controlled by the client's viewing_range, and this field is not set.
               When set the client client can no longer set a larger viewing_range (including range_all).
               Any value >= 0 sets the desired fog_distance.
               Any value < 0, resets the behavior to being client-controlled.

>                (default: not set)

Reviewer: does "not set" mean it returns `nil`?
if I reset it using -1 will it turn into `nil`?

Author: Yes on both. Is that too obtuse? I wasn't sure.

On set perhaps is possible to distinguish between not-present and present-but-nil.

>             * `fog_start`: float, override the client's fog_start.

Reviewer: missing explanation what fog_start is

Author: +1

               By default, fog_start is controlled by the client's fog_start setting, and this field is not set.
               Any value between [0.0, 0.99] set the fog_start as a fraction of fog_distance.
               Any value < 0, resets the behavior to being client-controlled.

> 	       (default: not set)

Reviewer: wrong indent

Author: You mean the lines are too long?

Reviewer: they don't align
![grafik](https://github.com/minetest/minetest/assets/1042418/a938c9d2-4480-4f6f-8658-f14c289cfc51)

the line with (default) has a tab in it

                abides by, `"custom"` uses `sun_tint` and `moon_tint`, while
                `"default"` uses the classic Minetest sun and moon tinting.
                Will use tonemaps, if set to `"default"`. (default: `"default"`)
        * `fog`: A table with following optional fields:
            * `fog_distance`: integer, override the client's viewing_range.
               By default, fog_distance is controlled by the client's viewing_range, and this field is not set.
               When set the client client can no longer set a larger viewing_range (including range_all).
               Any value >= 0 sets the desired fog_distance.
               Any value < 0, resets the behavior to being client-controlled.
               (default: not set)
            * `fog_start`: float, override the client's fog_start.

>                Fraction of the visible distance at which fog starts to be rendered.

Author: Hmm... Then we remove this feature and the client setting.

>                Fraction of the visible distance at which fog starts to be rendered.

Reviewer 2: >Can't we just do what you did here: https://github.com/Desour/minetest/tree/test_exp_fog

In case you're referring to the `fog_density = fogShadingParameter * 2.0;`, that's just something that I found by trying out, to keep the view somewhat the same. It probably won't work in general. And it limits the possible range for the fog density.

A big benefit of exponential squared fog over linear fog would be that one could make the fog much denser, btw., (i.e. `fog_start=0` with linear fog is still very clear).

>                Fraction of the visible distance at which fog starts to be rendered.

Reviewer 2: FYI, if you want something for testing exp2 fog, here's a small branch: https://github.com/Desour/minetest/tree/lhofhansl_fog_control_exp2 :-)

At this point, I'm unsure how a good API for fog density control would even look like, e.g. should the density be relative to the view distance or not?
Sorry for making this more complicated.

>                Fraction of the visible distance at which fog starts to be rendered.

Author: With exponential fog you also have to careful that fog just lines up with the viewing range. I.e. if the viewing_range is 500 the exponential fog to be chosen so that it is opaque exactly at 500. Otherwise you either load unnecessary blocks or you can see the jagged edge of the world.

With this in mind I suggest as long as we have linear fog we use that. Same the client fog_start setting.

>                Fraction of the visible distance at which fog starts to be rendered.

Reviewer 2: Ok, let's keep the `fog_start` for now then.

               By default, fog_start is controlled by the client's `fog_start` setting, and this field is not set.

>                Any value between [0.0, 0.99] set the fog_start as a fraction of fog_distance.

Author: That's what the client setting has (see settingtypes). It's can be 100 and more than 99 does not make sense.
See `float fogShadingParameter = 1.0 / (1.0 - fogStart);`

>                Any value between [0.0, 0.99] set the fog_start as a fraction of fog_distance.

Reviewer 2: The 0.99 is only to prevent a division by 0, right? But 0.99 is pretty arbitrary, it could also be 0.999, for example. My point is that it's kinda ugly to expose this to the API. Can't we just take `[0.0, 1.0]` here, and hide the clamp as implementation detail in the client?

                abides by, `"custom"` uses `sun_tint` and `moon_tint`, while
                `"default"` uses the classic Minetest sun and moon tinting.
                Will use tonemaps, if set to `"default"`. (default: `"default"`)
        * `fog`: A table with following optional fields:
            * `fog_distance`: integer, set an upper bound the client's viewing_range (inluding range_all).
               By default, fog_distance is controlled by the client's viewing_range, and this field is not set.
               Any value >= 0 sets the desired upper bound for the client's viewing_range and disables range_all.
               Any value < 0, resets the behavior to being client-controlled.

>                (default: not set)

Reviewer 2: Outdated doc.
```suggestion
               (default: `-1`)
```
(Same below.)

Author: The default remains... Not set. I.e. unless you actually provide a value (like -1) the existing settings remains.

            * `fog_start`: float, override the client's fog_start.
               Fraction of the visible distance at which fog starts to be rendered.
               By default, fog_start is controlled by the client's `fog_start` setting, and this field is not set.

>                Any value between [0.0, 0.99] set the fog_start as a fraction of fog_distance.

Reviewer 2: Should be:
```suggestion
               Any value between [0.0, 0.99] set the fog_start as a fraction of the viewing range.
```
The viewing range can be smaller than `fog_distance`.
